#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
knitr
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part*
Linguistic Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
foo1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Data quality and cleaning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Of the files provided, I mainly checked the raw dataset 
\family typewriter
lingdata
\family default
 for consistency while assuming 
\family typewriter
lingloc
\family default
, 
\family typewriter
all.ans
\family default
 and 
\family typewriter
quest.use
\family default
 were constructed correctly from this raw data or scraped correctly from
 the web.
 In its raw form, 
\family typewriter
lingdata
\family default
 has 47471 observations of 73 variables.
 Each observation records one person's answers to 67 questions together
 with his City, State, ZIP code, latitude, longitude as well as an ID number.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

I checked that the question columns were all encoded with numeric data and
 that there were no missing values in those columns.
 There are also no duplicate ID numbers.
 The first issue that came up was the missing latitude and longitude for
 1020 observations (rows).
 While city and state data were available for some of these rows, I decided
 not to write a script to scrape the latitude and longitude of these places
 from the internet due to time constraints and concerns about accuracy.
 Instead, I decided to remove the offending rows, leaving 46451 rows.
 Next, I checked for observations which recorded no response to any of the
 67 questions of interest.
 There were 1015 such observations and these were removed since they contain
 no linguistic information and there is absolutely no way to recover the
 missing data.
 45436 observations are left at this stage.
 The state column is also severely corrupted, with values such as XX, 94,
 C) and !L.
 A brief look at observations with the state labelled XX shows that they
 are from different states so this is not a case where all observations
 from a certain state were mislabelled.
 The state column was removed.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

Next, I looked at 
\family typewriter
all.ans
\family default
 to see whether the percentages for each question summed to 100, within
 a small tolerance of 0.1 percentage point.
 All of them did.
 I looked to see whether there were options for which it is recorded that
 0% of the respondents picked.
 I found 6 such questions but decided against removing them at this stage
 since the percentages may have been so small as to have been rounded down.
 After constructing the binary matrix with 
\begin_inset Formula $n=45436$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $p=468$
\end_inset

, I checked for the empty options again by looking at the columns, each
 of which correspond to a single option.
 None of the columns sum to zero, indicating that there are in fact no empty
 options.
 The last bit of data processing I did was to remove observations with a
 low rate of response to the questions of interest.
 While these observations still do contain some data, retaining them may
 give spurious clustering results later since encoding all non-responses
 as zeroes gives the illusion of agreement on a question where there may
 in fact be none.
 552 respondents who answered less than 60 out of the 67 questions of interest
 were identified and these rows removed to leave 44884 rows.
 Finally, a plot of latitude against longitude shows no obvious location
 outliers so that concludes the data cleaning.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Exploratory Data Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
foo2.2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Dimension reduction methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
foo3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Stability of findings to pertubation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
foo4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
foo5
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
